Drop support for Plone 5.2 and Plone 6.0 (#156)
plone/plone.volto: README.md

<h1 align="center">plone.volto</h1>

<div align="center">

[![PyPI](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/plone.volto)](https://pypi.org/project/plone.volto/)
[![PyPI - Python Version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/pyversions/plone.volto)](https://pypi.org/project/plone.volto/)
[![PyPI - Wheel](https://img.shields.io/pypi/wheel/plone.volto)](https://pypi.org/project/plone.volto/)
[![PyPI - License](https://img.shields.io/pypi/l/plone.volto)](https://pypi.org/project/plone.volto/)
[![PyPI - Status](https://img.shields.io/pypi/status/plone.volto)](https://pypi.org/project/plone.volto/)

[![PyPI - Plone Versions](https://img.shields.io/pypi/frameworkversions/plone/plone.volto)](https://pypi.org/project/plone.volto/)

[![Meta](https://github.com/plone/plone.volto/actions/workflows/meta.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/plone/plone.volto/actions/workflows/meta.yml)
![Code Style](https://img.shields.io/badge/Code%20Style-Black-000000)

[![GitHub contributors](https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/plone/plone.volto)](https://github.com/plone/plone.volto)
[![GitHub Repo stars](https://img.shields.io/github/stars/plone/plone.volto?style=social)](https://github.com/plone/plone.volto)

</div>

> **plone.volto** configures [Plone](https://plone.org/) to work with [Volto](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@plone/volto), the default frontend Plone since version 6.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`plone.volto` configures [Plone](https://plone.org/) to work with [Volto](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@plone/volto), the default frontend of Plone since version 6.0.
```

## Installation

> Add **plone.volto** to the Plone installation using `pip`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add `plone.volto` either to the Plone installation using `pip`:
```

> ```bash

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```shell
````

pip install plone.volto
```

> or add it as a dependency on your package's `setup.py`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
or add it as a dependency in your package's `setup.py`:
```

```python
    install_requires = [
        "plone.volto",
        "setuptools",
    ],
```

## Compatibility

> **plone.volto** version 5.x works with Plone 6.1 (pre-alpha and alpha), and supports Python 3.10, 3.11 and 3.12.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`plone.volto` version 5.x works with Plone 6.1 (pre-alpha and alpha), and supports Python 3.10, 3.11, and 3.12.
```

> Though, Volto requires specific versions of plone.volto and plone.restapi:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Volto requires specific versions of `plone.volto` and `plone.restapi`:
```

| `plone.volto` | `Plone` | `plone.restapi` | Comments |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
|  5.x | 6.1 |  8.41.0 and above | |
|  4.x | 5.2, 6.0 |  8.41.0 and above | |

> |  3.x | 5.1, 5.2 |  8.13.0 and above | Requires new JSONSummarySerializerMetadata serializer added in plone.restapi 8.13.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|  3.x | 5.1, 5.2 |  8.13.0 and above | Requires new `JSONSummarySerializerMetadata` serializer added in `plone.restapi` 8.13.|
```

> |  2.x (kitconcept.volto) | 5.1, 5.2 |  7.0.0 and above | New image scales |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|  2.x (`kitconcept.volto`) | 5.1, 5.2 |  7.0.0 and above | New image scales |
```

> |  1.x (kitconcept.volto) | 5.1, 5.2 |  6.0.0 and below | New transforms and features |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|  1.x (`kitconcept.volto`) | 5.1, 5.2 |  6.0.0 and below | New transforms and features |
```

> Volto only supports the latest plone.restapi branch, therefore it is recommended to always use the latest version in your Volto projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Volto only supports the latest `plone.restapi` branch, therefore it is recommended to always use the latest version in your Volto projects.
```

## Plone 6 architecture

> Architectural Diagram of Plone 6::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Architectural diagram of Plone 6:
```

> ```

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```text
````

    Frontend
    ┌──────────────────────────────┐
    │                              │
    │            Volto             │
    │                              │
    └────────┬────────────┬────────┘
             │            ▲
             │    HTTP    │
    Backend  ▼            │
    ┌────────┴────────────┴────────┐
    │┌────────────────────────────┐│
    ││        plone.restapi       ││
    │└────────────────────────────┘│
    │┌────────────────────────────┐│
    ││         plone.volto        ││
    │└────────────────────────────┘│
    │┌────────────┐ ┌─────────────┐│
    ││ Plone Core │ │   Add-Ons   ││
    │└────────────┘ └─────────────┘│
    └──────────────────────────────┘
```

## Features

> plone.volto provides the following features:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`plone.volto` provides the following features:
```

### Volto blocks support

> plone.volto enables the new Volto Blocks editor on `Document`, `Language Root Folder` and `Site Root`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`plone.volto` enables the new Volto blocks editor on `Document`, `Language Root Folder`, and `Site Root`.
```

### Block types index

> plone.volto adds a `block_types` index to the Plone catalog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`plone.volto` adds a `block_types` index to the Plone catalog.
```

It can be used to query for items that use a particular type of block.

```python
from plone import api
portal_catalog = api.portal.get_tool("portal_catalog")
portal_catalog.searchResults(block_types="image")
```

> The `block_types` index was added in plone.volto 4.1.0.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `block_types` index was added in `plone.volto` 4.1.0.
```

By default it is only added for new Plone sites.
To add it to an existing site, run `plone.volto.upgrades.add_block_types_index` manually.

### Multilingual support

> plone.volto supports multilingual websites.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`plone.volto` supports multilingual websites.
```

> Install PAM before installing this package and demo homepages will be created in each enabled language.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Install PAM before installing this package, and demo homepages will be created in each enabled language.
```

> Currently only support for EN/DE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Support is currently only for `EN` and `DE`.
```

### Document content type

> plone.volto disables the `Richtext` and `Table of Contents` behaviors for the `Document` content type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`plone.volto` disables the `Richtext` and `Table of Contents` behaviors for the `Document` content type.
```

> Rich Text functionality is provided by the new Volto Blocks editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rich text functionality is provided by the new Volto blocks editor.
```

> The `Table of Contents` functionality is provided by the `Table of Contents Block` in Volto.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Table of Contents` functionality is provided by the `Table of Contents` block in Volto.
```

### CORS profile

> A quick helper for enable CORS for development config is also provided in the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A quick helper to enable CORS for development configuration is also provided in the
```

> `plone.volto` module. So you can call:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`plone.volto` module. You can call:
```

```xml
<include package="plone.volto.cors" />
```

from your ZCML while developing.

Enable it on demand, since it's considered a security issue if you enable CORS in your
productions sites.

It's planned that Volto will feature a development pass-through proxy to the backend in
the future. It will be addressed in next sprints.

### ZLog patch

> p.restapi low level errors are routed through the ancient ZLog and are `plone_error`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`plone.restapi` low level errors are routed through the ancient ZLog and are `plone_error`
```

> enabled, making it difficult to follow since all are marked with a UUID. Specially if

Reviewer: ```suggestion
enabled, making it difficult to follow since all are marked with a UUID, specifically when
```

using helpers like Sentry. This patch removes the UUID so the same error is categorized
all together. This is planned to be addressed in next sprints.

### Patch for `subject` field

> There are some problems of serialization on special characters derivated from how the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are some problems of serialization on special characters derived from the
```

> current shape of the Plone's default Dexterity `subjects` field that has to be

Reviewer: ```suggestion
current shape of the Plone's default Dexterity `subjects` field that have to be
```

addressed in order to make it work properly with Volto (and other systems that are not
Plone). This will be fixed in core in upcoming sprints.

### Preview image behavior

The preview image behavior makes content types provide a `preview_image` field that can store a preview image that Volto views can pick up.
This is especially useful for listings (e.g. listing block customizations) and teaser elements (e.g. teaser blocks).

The `volto.preview_image` behavior can be enabled in the generic setup XML definition of a content type (e.g. `/profiles/default/types/MyContentType.xml`):

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<object i18n:domain="my.project" meta_type="Dexterity FTI" name="MyContentType"
  xmlns:i18n="http://xml.zope.org/namespaces/i18n">

  ...

  <!-- Enabled behaviors -->
  <property name="behaviors" purge="false">
    ...
    <element value="volto.preview_image" />
  </property>
  ...
</object>
```

There is also another variation of the preview image behavior called `volto.preview_image_link`.

> This one stores preview images using a relation to an Image content type, rather than in an image field. This might be preferable if many content items use the same preview image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This one stores preview images using a relation to an image content type, rather than in an image field. This might be preferable if many content items use the same preview image.
```

### Navigation title behavior

> The navigation title makes content types provide a nav_title field that is used by Volto in the main navigation, the breadcrumbs and the navigation portlet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The navigation title makes content types provide a `nav_title` field that is used by Volto in the main navigation, the breadcrumbs, and the navigation portlet.
```

> The "volto.navtitle behavior can be enabled in the generic setup XML definition of a content type (e.g. "/profiles/default/types/MyContentType.xml"):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `volto.navtitle` behavior can be enabled in the generic setup XML definition of a content type, for example in `/profiles/default/types/MyContentType.xml`:
```

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<object i18n:domain="my.project" meta_type="Dexterity FTI" name="MyContentType"
  xmlns:i18n="http://xml.zope.org/namespaces/i18n">

  ...

  <!-- Enabled behaviors -->
  <property name="behaviors" purge="false">
    ...
    <element value="volto.navtitle" />
  </property>
  ...
</object>
```

### Head title behavior

> The headtitle makes content types provide a headtitle field that can be used by Volto in teasers and alike.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `headtitle` behavior makes content types provide a `headtitle` field that can be used by Volto in teasers and other content types.
```

> The "volto.head_title" behavior can be enabled in the generic setup XML definition of a content type (e.g. "/profiles/default/types/MyContentType.xml"):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `volto.head_title` behavior can be enabled in the generic setup XML definition of a content type, for example in `/profiles/default/types/MyContentType.xml`:
```

```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8" ?>
<object i18n:domain="my.project" meta_type="Dexterity FTI" name="MyContentType"
  xmlns:i18n="http://xml.zope.org/namespaces/i18n">

  ...

  <!-- Enabled behaviors -->
  <property name="behaviors" purge="false">
    ...
    <element value="volto.head_title" />
  </property>
  ...
</object>
```

### Image scales

> This package introduces new Plone image scales in Plone and redefines a couple of existing ones. These are know to work well with Volto layout and grid system:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This package introduces new Plone image scales in Plone and redefines a couple of existing ones.
These are know to work well with the Volto layout and grid system:
```

| Scale | Dimensions |
| --- | --- |
| icon | 32:32 |
| tile | 64:64 |
| thumb | 128:128 |
| mini | 200:65536 |
| preview | 400:65536 |
| teaser | 600:65536 |
| large | 800:65536 |
| larger | 1000:65536 |
| great | 1200:65536 |
| huge | 1600:65536 |

**This change is opinionated and may collide with your previously defined ones, so make sure your add-on's profiles are applied AFTER this one.**

## History

<p align="left">
    <a href="https://kitconcept.com/">
      <img alt="Plone Logo" width="150px" src="https://kitconcept.com/logo.svg" alt="kitconcept GmbH">
    </a>
</p>

> The code of plone.volto has been under active development and is used in production since 2018.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code of `plone.volto` has been under active development and is used in production since 2018.
```

> First as kitconcept.voltodemo (deprecated since March, 5th 2020), then as kitconcept.volto.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It was first named `kitconcept.voltodemo` (deprecated since March, 5th 2020), then `kitconcept.volto`.
```

> In September 2021 kitconcept.volto has been renamed to plone.volto and has been contributed to the Plone core as part of [PLIP #2703](https://github.com/plone/Products.CMFPlone/issues/2703).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In September 2021 `kitconcept.volto` was renamed to `plone.volto`, and was contributed to the Plone core as part of [PLIP #2703](https://github.com/plone/Products.CMFPlone/issues/2703).
```
